I actually wrote down what you said and
I wondered if you let me quote you for a
minute oh can I quote you in our in your
it's your interview can I quote you okay
hey man go right ahead go ahead I
appreciate that all right this is this
is Dr Jordan Peterson here a quote from
him what you have in the figure of
Christ is the actual person who actually
lived plus a myth and in some sense
Christ is the union of those two
things the problem is that I probably
believe that but I'm amazed at my own
belief and I don't understand it because
I've seen that sometimes the objective
world and the narrative World
touch that's Union synchronicity and
I've seen that many times in my own life
and so in some sense I believe it's
undeniable you know we have a narrative
sense of the world for me that's been
the world of morality that's the world
that tells us how to act it's real we
treat it like it's real it's not the
objective world but sometimes the
narrative and the objective World
touch and the ultimate example of that
in principle is supposed to be
Christ and that seems to me oddly
plausible but I still don't know what to
make of it partly because it's too
terrifying of a reality to fully believe
I don't know what would even happen to
you if you fully believed
it yeah yeah so what struck me about
that when I heard you say
that was was the terrified part because
to me I would think it'd be the greatest
thing in the world if Jesus is who the
Bible says he is if that is
true then you should go running straight
to him because he controls heaven and
hell he created the universe he's the
Alpha the Omega he is he is the way the
truth and the life he's every answer you
ever wanted to have every answer to
every question he is the ultimate he he
loves you more than anybody will ever
love you he created you you you are his
creation the last thing he wants to see
happen to you is for you to go and
follow the other way and wind up in
eternity separated from him so I I had I
know it's your interview but I wanted to
ask you what terrifies you about the
notion that Jesus might be who the Bible
actually says he
is well it's been as you pointed out a
number of years since I said those
things and I know more and understand
more than I did when I said those words
um I've I've
reconceptualized my perspective I
suppose or deepened it
partly as a consequence of writing these
new books because I I have three books
finished and one of them is coming out
soon and they're all analysis of the
biblical
narratives this is something we can talk
about in relationship to what happened
to you after you decided to leave the
confines of the safe confines let's say
of the music industry see I started to
understand in the story of Abraham for
example God comes to Abraham as the
voice of Adventure
right because Abraham is an old man by
the time God shows up and he's living in
comfort and he has everything you might
need if all you wanted to be is a
satiated infant and God is really what
calls Abraham out into the world and he
has the whole catastrophic adventure of
his life right he encounters famine and
totalitarianism and War and malevolence
and the destruction of cities and the
necessity to offer up even his own son I
mean Abraham's life is quite the
spectacular catastrophe and
that what would you say the religious
injunction the deepest religious
injunction is to have exactly that
catastrophe of Adventure and there's no
real limit to that and that's part of
what's terrifying you know you you said
if the terror wasn't there that Holy
Terror in a sense you wouldn't have had
any compunctions about giving up your
contractual relationships and the
financial stability and the fame that
that offered right you already had that
it's there's a there's a terror in
letting that go let's say and only doing
what what would you say what you're
commanded to do or what you're invited
to do by the spirit of the truth but the
payoff is an adventure that so
disproportionately greater than whatever
you would have gained by staying with
your
what would you say your hedonistic
comfort that they're not even in the
same universe and that is it's the kind
of Terror so you know when God casts
Adam and Eve out of the garden or when
they separate themselves from God God
puts a sword to Bar the way back to the
Eternal garden and this the sword is on
fire and it turns every which way and
what that means is that it's a sword
that cuts and burns away everything that
isn't worthy of being in the kingdom of
heaven and everything that's not worthy
is a lot and there's a terror there's a
terror in being subjected to that even
though it's a necessary sub subjugation
it's the most necessary of subjugations
and so so what's the bigger gamble
though I mean what's the bigger terror
is the bigger Terror that is the
question that in In This Very temporary
body that we sit in this very short span
of time we have to live in it that we
don't that he's going to take over and
he's going to burn and cut and move
things off of us and by the way for
everything he burns and cut cuts off he
adds back by the way okay that he he
adds things on where he cut things off
oh more much more multiples of it is it
a bigger Terror to undergo that process
or to roll all the way through your life
and the second your heart stops and your
eyes open up you're standing in front of
him and you knew the truth and you
rejected the truth and now what now he
says depart from me depart from me I
never knew you and then it's Eternal
Terror then it's Eternal Terror forever
and ever and there's no coming back you
don't get a second chance at that that's
the ultimate Terror so I would I would
ask you one more question I if if use
the word if
here for
you if
Jesus is truly who the Bible says he is
he is the creator he is the one who
exists and creates existence which is
how he's defined he is the Alpha and the
Omega he holds the keys to life and
death to heaven and
hell if he is that
person would you ever turn your life
over to him if you truly believed he was
would you turn your life over to him
well if you truly believe that turning
your life over to him under those
conditions would be exactly the same as
believing it belief isn't as you already
pointed out belief isn't a set of
statements about what you believe to be
true it's a way of living well but I'm
already outlined what that way of living
is well but I'm asking you as just as as
one of the most I would say one of the
smartest guys in the world one of the
most intellectual people alive today
it's why people watch you someone like
yourself if you if you became absolutely
convinced yes that's real wow it it is
terrifying it is Terri but you said if
you told him I am turning my life over
to you do what you will with me and you
really did
that if if you were if if you were
willing to do that um I already did that
what a situation long time ago you did I
did that a long time ago yeah so so how
is it that how is it that I know the
truth sets you free yeah I understand so
so so in your life in your life it's not
the doctor calling the
shots not when I'm oriented
properly what orients
you holy
Terror look I'm I'm trying to say the
things that I believe serve the
truth like and I have reason for that
like because I know the I know what the
alternative is if the alternative is
Bleak like Bleaker than you can imagine
and so step carefully that's my
presumption and hope and pray that
you're careful enough
to walk the straight narrow path but but
it's impossible you can't do that I
can't do it you can't do it oh I
understand I understand what you mean I
don't take any issue with what you've
said yeah no I don't I don't think you
do and I'm I'm not trying to have an
issue I'm just no I I've I've studied
what you've been saying and I know you
look at the Bible it seems at least very
metaphorically and and very intellectual
you look at it in those kinds of terms
and at the end of the day it's it's not
a metaphor and it's not intellectualism
like when when you die and you see him
what's he going to say to you what are
you going to say to
him I mean that's the ultimate question
that everybody watching this interview
is going to have to deal with everybody
it says every knee shall bow every
tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ
is Lord every knee including John rich
and Jordan Peterson and the Devil
Himself and everybody else every knee is
going to have to bow and so whether you
believe that or not doesn't change the
fact that that is what is going to
happen and I I I happen to believe
because it says in the scripture that
the Lord reveals himself to every man
every man knows it he says I stand at
the door and knock and if any man hears
my voice and opens the door I'll come in
with him I'll sit down with him I'll
dine with him I'll have dinner with him
and he with to me and so you hear him
knocking on that door and you walk up
you open it and you let him in that is
what that means you have invited him
into your house let's call your body
this is my house I invite him in he sits
down he becomes he's living in my house
now that's what that means it also says
he won't knock forever he will not knock
forever if you if you reject you said
you experienced that you experienced
that when you felt abandoned yep yep uh
he won't knock Forever at some point if
you reject him long enough it says he'll
just turn you over to your desires and
go well we gave it a good shot move on
and brother you don't want to get to
that point so anybody watching this if
you feel him you feel him knocking at
the door open the door
[Music]